[MUSIC]
>> Mike: Here's the TLDR of
how computer properties work.
So when you get,
if you have a cashed value you proceed
directly to the cash and return it.
Fantastic.
If you don't have a cached value,
you rerun your calculation,
you get your value.
If you allow caching, right, and
that is almost always, right,
unless you say I'm a volatile
computer property, you allow caching.
That will be spit up into the cache and
then you will return the value.
So there are just these two paths,
you have the fast path if
the cached value is there.
You have the slow path if
the cache value is not there.
And, sorry let me go back here for
a moment.
So when a dependency changes
all that happens is we just
wipe out the cache, that's it.
So that is how this laziness works.
It's very cheap to invalidate
a computer property.
You're just clearing out
the cached value and
then the next time you ask for it,
you will do the recalculation.
This is very efficient,
because you can wipe it out 30 times
throughout a process by changing
a whole bunch of different properties.
And then only recalculate it once
compared to something like an observer
which would potentially
be firing 30 times.
And that is why we discourage observer use
except when binding to something foreign
to Ember like D3 or something like that.
>> Speaker 2: If the computer property
returns an array and a value in the array
changes, an entire new property is,
cache is invalid in the entire thing?
>> Mike: Sorry, can you ask that again?
>> Speaker 2: If a computed property
returns an array, and
a value inside of the array changes,
only part of that array changes.
The entire computed property is.
>> Mike: Good question.
And thank you for teeing me up for
something interesting here.
In older versions of Ember,
we were actually very careful
to return the exact same array.
So that we could be very efficient of,
in each for example,
only updating the fifth item.
And that's cuz it was very
expensive to update the DOM,
still is, but much less so.
Now with Glimmer because we have
this item potent rendering engine.
And item potent simply means that multiple
passes over the data will just it
will be the exact same results.
The same operation performed
multiple times will
not change things multiple times.
It will just ensure it's
in the same exact state.
So now its totally fine
to return a new array.
And this is why if you look at some of
the stuff that's been de-emphasized and
in many cases gutted from the framework
itself, all of these reduce
computer properties,
like the sum of the items in an array.
That's no longer special in a whole bunch
of code to try to be careful that we
hold this thing internally and only
return this same thing and manipulate it.
And now dealing with array values
returned from computer properties
falls down exactly the same
code paths as everything else.
Make sense?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 2: Awesome.
>> Mike: I am very happy to hear that.
So, I talked about abstracting
computer properties a little bit.
There is a concept of
computed property macros.
This is a fancy name for a function
that returns a computed property.
And so, here, we're finding,
in our app, that often,
we need to calculate
the sum of two values.
We can wrap that all in
a function make it generic and
then just sort of use it throughout
our app wherever we need it.
I very strongly encourage
this pattern because this
function sum lends itself
extremely well to unit testing.
So you've taken a lot of the logic that's
necessary to perform some calculation,
isolated it into a single function and so
you can sort of do a lot of value in value
out analysis of different scenarios.
And that's very cheap to test,
even extremely deeply.
So if you're building a large Ember app
and you're seeing the same patterns
over and over in your computer properties,
consider breaking them out
into their own JavaScript modules,
writing their own tests around them.
And then you don't have to worry about
your components and your routes and
everything.
You should not have computer
properties in your routes usually but
your code ends up being much cleaner and
much more expressive.
Now we don't have a function in our
component so much as we have the word sum
which is very easy to read,
it's very easy to understand what is c.
Well, it's the sum of properties a and b.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: I notice you're leaving off
the namespace for Ember.computed and
here Ember.computed sum.
Ending up Ember in some cases and
Ember computed.
And that ES6 was always there for you?
>> Mike: So, you're saying that here?
>> Speaker 2: I would write
Ember.computed.sum.
>> Mike: I'm defining a function called
sum, I'm not using Ember computed sum.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike: And the value of that function,
up there,
down in the bottom half of the slide.
I can go back here.
So, you may see me use destructuring
assignment on the first line, here.
>> Speaker 2: I missed the first line.
>> Mike: I'm terribly sorry.
And that's a way of just
grabbing computed off Ember.
That is more personal style, you know.
I just you put the first line of code.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Mike: All right.
So.
>> Speaker 2: That's explains what.
Little cushion on that.
>> Mike: Yeah, they're
just asking where would you define this?
>> Speaker 3: Would you
put it on a component or a service?
>> Mike: Where would I define the computed
property?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Mike: I would define it in
the Utils folder.
We haven't gone over this but the Utils,
app/utils is a place where
you'll typically put simple
functions that are usually,
highly unit-testable, it's sort of,
I wanna say dumping ground, but
I don't mean that in a bad sense.
It's where you put your generally useful,
simple utility functions and
then these case computer properties
are perfect thing to put there.
So you can generate a util with ember-cli
which would just give you a function
to fill in the blank and
then write a unit test for that function.
But that is the perfect place for
this kinda thing.